[openwebnet] Add support for  sending Auxiliary (AUX) commands/messages to the bus (WHO=9) (#12468)
openhab/openhab-addons: bundles/org.openhab.binding.openwebnet/README.md

| ----------------------------- | :----------: | :--------------------------------------------------------: | ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Gateway Management            | `13`         | `bus_gateway`                                              | Any IP gateway supporting OpenWebNet protocol should work        | Successfully tested: F452, F453, F453AV,F454, F455, MyHOMEServer1, MyHOME_Screen10, MyHOME_Screen3,5, MH201, MH202, MH200N. Some connection stability issues/gateway resets reported with MH202  |
| Lighting                      | `1`          | `bus_on_off_switch`, `bus_dimmer`                          | BUS switches and dimmers                                         | Successfully tested: F411/2, F411/4, F411U2, F422, F429. Some discovery issues reported with F429 (DALI Dimmers) |

> | Automation                    | `2`          | `bus_automation`                                           | BUS roller shutters, with position feedback and auto-calibration | Successfully tested: LN4672M2                                                                        |

Author: I cannot find out which change to be removed

> | Automation                    | `2`          | `bus_automation`                                           | BUS roller shutters, with position feedback and auto-calibration | Successfully tested: LN4672M2                                                                        |

Reviewer: all these lines have been changed, probably to fix spaces? My suggestion is to not to touch other parts that are not related to Alarm, jut to keep the PR focused

> | Automation                    | `2`          | `bus_automation`                                           | BUS roller shutters, with position feedback and auto-calibration | Successfully tested: LN4672M2                                                                        |

Author: ok I will be  reffering only to AUX not to Alarm anymore!

> | Automation                    | `2`          | `bus_automation`                                           | BUS roller shutters, with position feedback and auto-calibration | Successfully tested: LN4672M2                                                                        |

Reviewer: The note on Alarm system configuration with aux is useful. Just do not change these specific lines above that are not related to neither alarm nor aux

> | Automation                    | `2`          | `bus_automation`                                           | BUS roller shutters, with position feedback and auto-calibration | Successfully tested: LN4672M2                                                                        |

Author: I reformatted a table above as on main branch as it was not correctly formatted. It is all like main branch except for the parts I added for aux 

Ok I left the Alarm system configuration description unchanged  and changed specific lines referring specifically  to AUX

 bus_aux		                Aux		             "Aux"	                    [ where="4"   ]
....
String              iAux                        "Aux"		                        { channel="openwebnet:bus_aux:mybridge:Aux:aux"}
...
Frame label="Auxiliary"
    {
          Switch item=iAux         icon="siren"
    }
...
i

> | Automation                    | `2`          | `bus_automation`                                           | BUS roller shutters, with position feedback and auto-calibration | Successfully tested: LN4672M2                                                                        |

Author: issue resolved

| Temperature Control           | `4`          | `bus_thermo_zone`, `bus_thermo_sensor`, `bus_thermo_cu`    | Thermo zones management and temperature sensors (probes).        | Successfully tested: H/LN4691, HS4692, KG4691; thermo sensors: L/N/NT4577 + 3455; Central Units (4 or 99 zones) are not fully supported yet. See [Channels - Thermo](#configuring-thermo) for more details |

> | Auxiliary (AUX)               |     `9`     |                         `bus_aux`                          | AUX commands                                                                                                                                                                             | Successfully tested: bulgrar-alarm  unit 3486                                        |

Author: ok done

> | Auxiliary (AUX)               |     `9`     |                         `bus_aux`                          | AUX commands                                                     | Successfully tested: AUX configured for bulgrar-alarm unit 3486                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Auxiliary (AUX)               |     `9`     |                         `bus_aux`                          | AUX commands                                                     | Successfully tested: AUX configured for bulgrar-alarm unit 3486. Only sending AUX commands is supported                                                                                                                                           |
```

The (optional) Central Unit can be configured defining a `bus_themo_cu` Thing.

#### Configuring Auxiliary (AUX)

BUS Auxiliary commands (WHO=9) can be used to send on the BUS commands to control, for example, external devices or a BTicino Alarm system. 
To control a BTicino Alarm system the Alarm unit should be configured for example as follows:

Antitheft -> Automations -> toggle the Event option -> select OPEN code

- Type the AUX command you want to set, e.g. `*9*1*4##` (where=4)

> - Type the associated Open Web Net command you want to execute, e.g.  `*5*8*#1234##` (engage alarm)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Type the associated Open Web Net command you want to execute, e.g.  `*5*8*#1234##` (engage alarm on zones 1, 2, 3, 4)
```

Author: ok

The (optional) Central Unit can be configured defining a `bus_themo_cu` Thing.

#### Configuring Auxiliary (AUX)

BUS Auxiliary commands  (WHO=9) can be used to send on the BUS commands to control, for example, external devices or a BTcino Alarm system. 

To control a BTicino alarm system  the alarm unit should be configured for example  as follows:

> Antitheft->Automations-> then toggle the Event option -> then select OPEN code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Antitheft -> Automations -> then toggle the Event option -> then select OPEN code
```

- Type in the AUX command you want to set, e.g. \*9\*1\*4\##

> - Type in the associated  Open Web Net code you want to execute, e.g.  \*5\*8*#1234##

Author: I would add "(engage alarm for zones 1,2,3,4")

> - Type in the associated  Open Web Net code you want to execute, e.g.  \*5\*8*#1234##

Reviewer: ok, it helps to explain the command

The (optional) Central Unit can be configured defining a `bus_themo_cu` Thing.

#### Configuring Auxiliary (AUX)

> BUS Auxiliary commands  (WHO=9) can be used to send on the BUS commands to control, for example, external devices or a BTcino Alarm system. 

Author: ok fixed  it

The (optional) Central Unit can be configured defining a `bus_themo_cu` Thing.

#### Configuring Auxiliary (AUX)

BUS Auxiliary commands  (WHO=9) can be used to send on the BUS commands to control, for example, external devices or a BTcino Alarm system. 

To control a BTicino alarm system  the alarm unit should be configured for example  as follows:

Antitheft -> Automations -> then toggle the Event option -> then select OPEN code

- Type in the AUX command you want to set, e.g. \*9\*1\*4\## (where=4)
- Type in the associated  Open Web Net code you want to execute, e.g.  \*5\*8*#1234## (engage alarm on zones 1,2,3,4).

> Please note  that,  as far as AUX command support, it is not possibile to receive messages originating from the bus. Only sending messages to the bus  is  doable.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that receiving AUX messages originating from the bus is not supported yet, only sending messages to the bus is supported.
```

Author: Fixed it

| `shutter`                                 | `bus_automation`                                              | Rollershutter | To activate roller shutters (`UP`, `DOWN`, `STOP`, Percent - [see Shutter position](#shutter-position))             | R/W         |
| `button#X`                                | `bus_cen_scenario_control`, `bus_cenplus_scenario_control`    | String        | Trigger channel for CEN/CEN+ scenario events [see possible values](#cen-cen-channels)                               | R (TRIGGER) |
| `sensor`                                  | `bus_dry_contact_ir`                                          | Switch        | Indicates if a Dry Contact Interface is `ON`/`OFF`, or if a IR Sensor is detecting movement (`ON`), or not  (`OFF`) | R           |
| `power`                                   | `bus_energy_meter`                                            | Number:Power  | The current active power usage from Energy Meter                                                                    | R           |

> | `aux`                                     | `bus_aux`                                                     | String        | To switch the device `ON` and `OFF`                       |     R/W  |

Author: OK

> | `aux`                                   | `bus_aux`                                                     | String        | To send an AUX command  `ON` and `OFF`                                                                              |     R/W     |

Reviewer: list here all possibile AUX commands and specify that only send ON/OFF is supported for the moment.

| `shutter`                               | `bus_automation`                                              | Rollershutter | To activate roller shutters (`UP`, `DOWN`, `STOP`, Percent - [see Shutter position](#shutter-position))                                                |     R/W     |
| `button#X`                              | `bus_cen_scenario_control`, `bus_cenplus_scenario_control`    | String        | Trigger channel for CEN/CEN+ scenario events [see possible values](#cen-cen-channels)                                                                  | R (TRIGGER) |
| `sensor`                                | `bus_dry_contact_ir`                                          | Switch        | Indicates if a Dry Contact Interface is `ON`/`OFF`, or if a IR Sensor is detecting movement (`ON`), or not  (`OFF`)                                    |      R      |
| `power`                                 | `bus_energy_meter`                                            | Number:Power  | The current active power usage from Energy Meter                                                                                                       |      R      |

> | `aux`                                   | `bus_aux`                                                     | String        | Possible commands: ON,OFF,TOGGLE, STOP, UP,DOWN,ENABLED, DISABLED, RESET_GEN, RESET_BI, RESET_TRI. Still, only   'ON' and `OFF'  are supported for now |     R/W     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `aux`                                   | `bus_aux`                                                     | String        | Possible commands: `ON, OFF, TOGGLE, STOP, UP, DOWN, ENABLED, DISABLED, RESET_GEN, RESET_BI, RESET_TRI`. Only `ON` and `OFF` are supported for now |     R/W     |
```

Author: Fixed it

      bus_cen_scenario_control      LR_CEN_scenario      "Living Room CEN"          [ where="51", buttons="4,3,8"]
      bus_cenplus_scenario_control  LR_CENplus_scenario  "Living Room CEN+"         [ where="212", buttons="1,5,18" ]
      bus_dry_contact_ir            LR_IR_sensor         "Living Room IR Sensor"    [ where="399" ]

>       bus_aux		            Alarm		 "Alarm"	            [ where="4"   ]

Author: OK

String	            iCENPlusProxyItem	        "CEN+ Proxy Item"

> String              iAlarm                      "Alarm"		                        { channel="openwebnet:bus_aux:mybridge:Alarm:aux"}

Author: OK

String	            iCENPlusProxyItem	        "CEN+ Proxy Item"

> String              iAlarm_activation            "Alarm Activation"		                 { channel="openwebnet:bus_aux:mybridge:Alarm_activation:aux"}

Reviewer 2: `iAlarm` is referenced in the sitemap example, should be renamed there as well.

    {
          Switch    item=iCENPlusProxyItem  label="My CEN+ scenario" icon="movecontrol"  mappings=[ON="Activate"]
    }
    

>     Frame label="Alarm"

Author: OK

    {
          Switch    item=iCENPlusProxyItem  label="My CEN+ scenario" icon="movecontrol"  mappings=[ON="Activate"]
    }
    
    Frame label="Alarm activation via AUX command"
    {

>           Switch item=iAlarm_activation         icon="siren"

Reviewer 3: As the channel/item is a string, "Text" looks more appropriate than "Switch" in the sitemap ?

Author: I tried to modify as you suggest but in that way the the user is no more able to interact with the sitemap-item, i.e. the sitemap-item become not active!

Reviewer 3: As there are options, Switch or Selection are ok. 
Forget my comment.

    {
          Switch    item=iCENPlusProxyItem  label="My CEN+ scenario" icon="movecontrol"  mappings=[ON="Activate"]
    }
    
    Frame label="Alarm activation via AUX command"
    {

>           Switch item=iAlarm         icon="siren"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          Switch item=iAlarm_activation         icon="siren"
```

Author: Ok, fixed it
